USHIFT-4377: introduce microshift ingress performance enhancement (#1685)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/microshift/microshift-router-configuration-performance.md

## Summary
MicroShift's default router is created as part of the platform, but does not
allow configuring any of its specific parameters. For example, you cannot
specify the policy for HTTP traffic compression or enable HTTP2 protocol.

In order to allow these operations and many more, a set of configuration options
is proposed.

the configuration change will propagate to the router deployment [manifest](https://github.com/pacevedom/microshift/blob/8f76e21b9a3f0044c83eae4e2c177871c8235103/assets/components/openshift-router/deployment.yaml) Environment variable.

it will be used from the operator CRDs .

### ingress Operations & performance

## Tuning->request-timeout-configuration

# references
- microshift router deploymemt [template](https://github.com/openshift/router/blob/72114ea78be0a032d5cdddcad694e0a352a00e93/images/router/haproxy/conf/haproxy-config.template#L161)

## Motivation

Customers need the ability to adjust how long HAProxy holds connections open,
either by extending the timeout to accommodate slower backends or clients, or by
shortening the timeout, allowing connections to be closed more aggressively.

### User Stories

> TBD

Reviewer: Is there a "why" that we can add here?

| tuningOptions -> healthCheckInterval |  | Yes | ROUTER_BACKEND_CHECK_INTERVAL | 5000ms |  |
| tuningOptions -> clientTimeout |  | Yes | ROUTER_DEFAULT_CLIENT_TIMEOUT | 30s |  |
| tuningOptions -> clientFinTimeout |  | Yes | ROUTER_CLIENT_FIN_TIMEOUT | 1s |  |
| tuningOptions -> serverTimeout |  | Yes | ROUTER_DEFAULT_SERVER_TIMEOUT | 30s |  |
| tuningOptions -> serverFinTimeout |  | Yes | ROUTER_DEFAULT_SERVER_FIN_TIMEOUT | 1s |  |
| tuningOptions -> tunnelTimeout |  | Yes | ROUTER_DEFAULT_TUNNEL_TIMEOUT | 1h |  |
| tuningOptions -> tlsInspectDelay |  | Yes | ROUTER_INSPECT_DELAY | 5s |  |
| tuningOptions -> threadCount |  | No | ROUTER_THREADS | 4 |  |
| tuningOptions -> maxConnections |  | Yes | ROUTER_MAX_CONNECTIONS | 50000 |  |
| LogEmptyRequests |  | Yes | ROUTER_DONT_LOG_NULL |  |  |
| HTTPEmptyRequestsPolicy |  | Yes | ROUTER_HTTP_IGNORE_PROBES |  |  |
| HTTP2 |  | NO | ROUTER_DISABLE_HTTP2 | true | Bool |

### Configure IPs where the router listens
The following configuration is proposed:
```yaml
ingress:
    - ...
```

### Workflow Description
**cluster admin** is a human user responsible for configuring a MicroShift
cluster.

> 1. The cluster admin adds specific configuration for the router prior to

Reviewer: Is this an immutable configuration?
Can the user set it day 1 or day 2 after they've started MicroShift?

Author: yes,its router runtime configuration it can be changed on day 2.

   MicroShift's start.

> 2. After MicroShift started, the system will ingest the configuration and setup

Reviewer: What else does the user need to configure on the network or host side? Anything?

Author: this only effects the router runtime internal configuration nothing more should be configured.

   everything according to it.

### API Extensions
As described in the proposal, there is an entire new section in the configuration:
```yaml
ingress:
    - ...
```

For more information check each individual section.

### Topology Considerations
TBD

#### Standalone Clusters
N/A

#### Single-node Deployments or MicroShift
Enhancement is solely intended for MicroShift.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

### Risks and Mitigations
TBD

> ### Drawbacks

Reviewer: So what are the in-the-field consequences of either scenario? For example, brick the device in #1? Cause failure of task in scenario #2? Do we want to give the users any quantifiable guidance about values to set?

Author: well can we warn  customer that the defaults shouldn't be changed unless he is really knows what he is doing..

Author: its really the internals of the routers

- Setting the timeout higher may cause some dead connections to be kept open
  for longer, and would add to the memory footprint of the router
- Setting the timeout too low can cause connection closure before the server or
  client has enough time to respond

## Design Details
TBD

## Open Questions
N/A

## Test Plan
All of the changes listed here will be included in the current e2e scenario
testing harness in MicroShift.

## Graduation Criteria
Targeting GA for MicroShift 4.18 release.

> ### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

Reviewer: Are we targeting Tech Preview in 4.18, or Dev?

- Ability to utilize the enhancement end to end
- End user documentation, relative API stability
- Sufficient test coverage

### Tech Preview -> GA
- More testing (upgrade, downgrade)
- Sufficient time for feedback
- Available by default
- User facing documentation created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

### Removing a deprecated feature
N/A

> ## Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

Reviewer: Are these only for minor-version updates/downgrades? What about z-stream updates?

is proposed.

## Motivation

Microshift Customers need a way to override the default Ingress Controller  configuration parameters similar as OpenShift does.

### User Stories

#### User Story 1

My application starts processing requests from clients, but the connection is
getting closed before it can respond.

I set `ingress.tuningOptions.serverTimeout` in the configuration file to a
higher value to accommodate the slow response from the server.

#### User Story 2

The router has many connections open because an application running on my
cluster doesn't close connections properly.

I set `ingress.tuningOptions.serverTimeout` and
`spec.tuningOptions.serverFinTimeout` in the ingresscontroller API to a lower
value, forcing those connections to close sooner if my application stops
responding to them.

### Goals
Allow users to configure the additional HAProxy/Router performance customization parameters, see Proposal table for details.

### Non-Goals
N/A

## Proposal

Microshift don't use ingress [operator](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-ingress-operator) , all the customization performed through  configuration file.

> the configuration will propagate to the router deployment [manifest](https://github.com/pacevedom/microshift/blob/8f76e21b9a3f0044c83eae4e2c177871c8235103/assets/components/openshift-router/deployment.yaml) Environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the configuration will propagate to the router deployment [manifest](https://github.com/openshift/microshift/blob/aea40ae1ee66dc697996c309268be1939b018f56/assets/components/openshift-router/deployment.yaml) Environment variables.
```

> see the table below for the proposed configuration changes:

Reviewer 2: Should we reference OCP docs here? You would get extra info such as possible values, format, etc.
https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/networking/ingress-operator.html

Author: I think the table is good way to show which configuration we are adding in the enhancement.
i'll also add reference to the full OCP config.

cluster.

1. The cluster admin adds specific configuration for the router prior to
   MicroShift's start.
2. After MicroShift started, the system will ingest the configuration and setup
   everything according to it.

### API Extensions
As described in the proposal, there is an entire new section in the configuration:
```yaml
ingress:
    tuningOptions:
        headerBufferBytes: 32768
        headerBufferMaxRewriteBytes: 8192
        healthCheckInterval: 5000m
        clientTimeout: 30s
        clientFinTimeout: 1s
        serverTimeout: 30s 
        serverFinTimeout: 1s
        tunnelTimeout: 1h
        tlsInspectDelay: 5s
        threadCount: 4
        maxConnections: 50000
    httpCompressionMimeTypes: none
    LogEmptyRequests: Log
    forwardedHeaderPolicy: Append
    HTTPEmptyRequestsPolicy: Respond
    HTTP2IsEnabled: false
```

For more information check each individual section.

#### Hypershift / Hosted Control Planes
N/A
### Topology Considerations
N/A

#### Standalone Clusters
N/A

#### Single-node Deployments or MicroShift
Enhancement is solely intended for MicroShift.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

> 

Reviewer 2: I am missing some more detail here.

### Risks and Mitigations

> -  Incorrect ingress configuration can cause network  disruption and unpredictable behavior , the documentation should warn about dangers of changing the defaults. 

Reviewer 2: At least one warning is listed in OCP docs: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/networking/ingress-operator.html
Should we do the same?

### Drawbacks

- Setting the timeout higher may cause some dead connections to be kept open
  for longer, and would add to the memory footprint of the router
- Setting the timeout too low can cause connection closure before the server or
  client has enough time to respond

## Open Questions
N/A

## Test Plan
all of of the configuration changes listed here will be included in the current e2e scenario
testing harness in Microshift, verifying that its applied to the ingress deployment pods.
testing ingress functionality is out of scope .

## Graduation Criteria

> Targeting GA for MicroShift 4.18 release.

Reviewer 2: If targeting GA directly, do we need the graduation criteria?

the configuration will propagate to the router deployment [manifest](https://github.com/openshift/microshift/blob/aea40ae1ee66dc697996c309268be1939b018f56/assets/components/openshift-router/deployment.yaml) Environment variables.

see the table below for the proposed configuration changes:

| new configuration                                 | description                                                                                                                                                                                     | default |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| ingress.httpCompressionMimeTypes                  | list of MIME types that should have compression applied. <br>At least one MIME type must be specified.<br>                                                                                      | none    |

> | ingress.forwardedHeaderPolicy                     | specify when and how the Ingress Controller sets the `Forwarded`, `X-Forwarded-For`, `X-Forwarded-Host`, `X-Forwarded-Port`, `X-Forwarded-Proto`, and `X-Forwarded-Proto-Version` HTTP headers. | append  |

Reviewer 3: Not sure if it matters, but "Append" is capitalized (like "Log", and "Respond"), in the PR for this EP
